Privacy and data governance: Closely linked to the principle of prevention of harm is privacy, a fundamental right particularly affected by AI systems. Prevention of harm to privacy also necessitates adequate data governance that covers the quality and  integrity of the data used, its relevance in light of the domain in which the AI systems will be deployed, its access  protocols and the capability to process data in a manner that protects privacy.
Privacy and data protection: AI systems must guarantee privacy and data protection throughout a system’s entire lifecycle. This includes the information initially provided by the user, as well as the information generated about  the user over the course of their interaction with the system (e.g. outputs that the AI system generated for specific  users or how users responded to particular recommendations). Digital records of human behaviour may allow AI systems to infer not only individuals’ preferences, but also their sexual orientation, age, gender, religious or political  views. To allow individuals to trust the data gathering process, it must be ensured that data collected about them  will not be used to unlawfully or unfairly discriminate against them.
Quality and integrity of data: The quality of the data sets used is paramount to the performance of AI systems. When data is gathered, it may contain socially constructed biases, inaccuracies, errors and mistakes. This needs to  be addressed prior to training with any given data set. In addition, the integrity of the data must be ensured.  Feeding malicious data into an AI system may change its behaviour, particularly with self-learning systems.  Processes and data sets used must be tested and documented at each step such as planning, training, testing and  deployment. This should also apply to AI systems that were not developed in-house but acquired elsewhere
Access to data: In any given organisation that handles individuals’ data (whether someone is a user of the system or not), data protocols governing data access should be put in place. These protocols should outline who can access data and under which circumstances. Only duly qualified personnel with the competence and need to access  individual’s data should be allowed to do so.