Societal and environmental wellbeing: In line with the principles of fairness and prevention of harm, the broader society, other sentient beings and the environment should be also considered as stakeholders throughout the AI system’s life cycle. Sustainability and  ecological responsibility of AI systems should be encouraged, and research should be fostered into AI solutions  addressing areas of global concern, such as for instance the Sustainable Development Goals. Ideally, AI systems  should be used to benefit all human beings, including future generations.
Sustainable and environmentally friendly AI: AI systems promise to help tackling some of the most pressing societal concerns, yet it must be ensured that this occurs in the most environmentally friendly way possible. The system’s  development, deployment and use process, as well as its entire supply chain, should be assessed in this regard, e.g.  via a critical examination of the resource usage and energy consumption during training, opting for less harmful  choices. Measures securing the environmental friendliness of AI systems’ entire supply chain should be encouraged.
Social impact: Ubiquitous exposure to social AI systems in all areas of our lives (be it in education, work, care or entertainment) may alter our conception of social agency, or impact our social relationships and attachment. While AI systems can be used to enhance social skills, they can equally contribute to their deterioration. This could also  affect people’s physical and mental wellbeing. The effects of these systems must therefore be carefully monitored  and considered.
Society and Democracy: Beyond assessing the impact of an AI system’s development, deployment and use on individuals, this impact should also be assessed from a societal perspective, taking into account its effect on  institutions, democracy and society at large. The use of AI systems should be given careful consideration particularly  in situations relating to the democratic process, including not only political decision-making but also electoral  contexts.